README.md, before:

# **❤️ Love That Gives Back**

- [Concept Overview](#concept-overview)
- [Front-End Features](#front-end-features)
  - [Home Page (Landing Page)](#1-home-page-landing-page)
  - [User Authentication](#2-user-authentication)
  - [Dashboard](#3-dashboard)
  - [Charity Pages (CRUD Features)](#4-charity-pages-crud-features)
  - [Responsive Design](#5-responsive-design)
  - [API Integration](#6-api-integration)
- [Back-End Features](#back-end-features)
  - [Django Server](#1-django-server)
  - [Database](#2-database)
  - [User Authentication & Authorization](#3-user-authentication--authorization)
  - [Donation Management](#4-donation-management)
  - [Automated Testing](#5-automated-testing)
- [Tools & Technologies](#tools--technologies)
  - [Front-End](#front-end)
  - [Back-End](#back-end)
  - [Version Control & Deployment](#version-control--deployment)
- [ER Diagram](#er-diagram)
- [Sitemap](#sitemap)
- [User Flow](#user-flow)
- [User Stories](#user-stories)
  - [Guest User (Wedding Guest)](#guest-user-wedding-guest)
  - [Wedding Couple (Profile Owner)](#wedding-couple-profile-owner)
  - [Admin (Superuser)](#admin)


---

## **Concept Overview**  
**Theme:** A platform where users can explore and donate to various charity organizations tied to a couple's values.  
**Objective:**  
- Celebrate love by inspiring generosity.  
- Provide a seamless user experience for exploring charities and donating.  

---

## **Front-End Features**  

### 1. **Home Page (Landing Page)**  
- A hero section introducing the mission.  
- Links/buttons for logging in, exploring charities, and donating.  
- Display the wedding date with a countdown.  
- Highlight charity statistics (e.g., total donations).  

### 2. **User Authentication**   
- Login/Logout: Use Django Rest Framework for token-based authentication.  

### 3. **Dashboard**  
- Display personalized greetings.  
- Show donation history and progress.  
- Enable users to set donation goals.  

### 4. **Charity Pages (CRUD Features)**  
- Explore three charities with descriptions, images, and goals.  
- Allow users (admins) to create/update/delete charity profiles.  
- Enable commenting or "likes" on charities as a bonus feature.  

### 5. **Responsive Design**  
- Use bootstrap and CSS for a modern, responsive design.
- Ensure compatibility across devices.  

### 6. **API Integration**  
- **External API:** Display live progress using an external API for secure payments.  

---

## **Back-End Features**  

### 1. **Django Server**  
- RESTful API with Django Rest Framework.  
- Serve data to the React front-end.  

### 2. **Database**  
- PostgreSQL for scalable and reliable data management.  
- Store user profiles, charity data, and donation transactions.  

### 3. **User Authentication & Authorization**  
- Secure user login with hashed passwords.  
- Assign roles (admin, authenticated user, guest).  

### 4. **Donation Management**  
- CRUD functionality for donations.  
- Generate donation receipts.  

### 5. **Automated Testing**  
- Use Django's `unittest` framework to test API endpoints and functionality.  

---

## **Tools & Technologies**  

### **Front-End:**  
- React with React Router.  
- Axios for API calls.   

### **Back-End:**  
- Django with Django Rest Framework.  
- PostgreSQL database.  

### **Version Control & Deployment:**  
- Git for version control.  
- Deploy front-end and back-end with Render.  

---

## ER Diagram

```mermaid
erDiagram
    USER {
      int id PK
      string username
      string email
    }
    PROFILE {
      int id PK
      date wedding_date
      string bio
      string location
      string profile_picture
      string bank
      string bank_account
      string revolut_username
    }
    CHARITY {
      int id PK
      string name
      string description
      string website
      string logo
    }
    DONATION {
      int id PK
      int profile_id FK
      string donor_name
      string donor_email
      decimal amount
      string message
      string status "pending/confirmed/failed"
      datetime created_at
      datetime updated_at
    }
    
    USER ||--|| PROFILE : "has"
    PROFILE }o--o{ CHARITY : "supports"
    CHARITY ||--o{ DONATION : "receives"
```

---

## Sitemap

```mermaid
mindmap
  root((Love That Gives Back))
      About / How It Works (About Us)
      Login Page (Login / Logout)
      Home Page (Home)
        Select Cause (Charities)
          Donation Form Page (Donate)
            Payment Instructions Page
           Donation Confirmation Page
      Couple Dashboard (Dashboard)
        Couple's Profile (Settings)
          Edit Profile
          Manage Supported Charities (Charities)
            Add New Charity
            View Supported Charities
              Edit Selected Charities
        View Donations (Donations)
          List of Confirmed Donations
          Donation Details Page
      Admin Dashboard (Admin Panel)
        Manage Donations
          (Confirm / Fail)
        View Overall Donation Statistics (Analytics/Reports)
          Charts
          Export
        Manage Users
        Manage Charities
```

---

## User Flow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Visit Home Page] --> B{User Type?}
    B -- Guest --> C[Select Couple Profile]
    C --> D[Choose Supported Charity]
    D --> E[Fill Out Donation Form]
    E --> F[Review Payment Instructions]
    F --> G[Donation Confirmation]
    
    B -- Couple --> H[Register / Login]
    H --> I[Manage Profile]
    I --> J[Edit Profile Details]
    J --> K[(Wedding Date, Bio, Location)]
    I --> L[Manage Supported Charities]
    L --> M[Add New Charity]
    M --> N[(Name, Description, Website)]
    L --> O[View/Update Selected Charities]
    I --> P[View Donations]
    P --> Q[List of Confirmed Donations]
    Q --> R[Donation Details]
    
    B -- Admin --> S[Admin Login]
    S --> T[Admin Dashboard]
    T --> U[Manage Donations]
    T --> V[View Statistics & Analytics]
    V --> W[(Percentage Charts, Donation Trends)]
    T --> X[Manage Users & Charities]
```

---

## User Stories

### Guest User (Wedding Guest)
- **As a guest, I want to view a couple’s profile and supported charities so that I can select one to donate to.**
- **As a guest, I want to fill out a donation form with my name, email, donation amount, and a personal message so that I can contribute a gift.**
- **As a guest, I want to review payment instructions and receive confirmation after submitting my donation so that I know my gift is acknowledged.**

### Wedding Couple (Profile Owner)
- **As a couple, I want to register and log in with a single user account so that I can manage my profile easily.**
- **As a couple, I want to view my profile details (wedding date, bio, location, etc.) so that guests know more about us.**
- **As a couple, I want to edit my profile details and update my supported charities so that I can choose which charities are displayed on my profile.**
- **As a couple, I want to see a list of confirmed donations (filtered by the charities I support) so that I can track the contributions and share my gratitude.**

### Admin
- **As an admin, I want to log in and view an admin dashboard so that I can manage all donations and user data.**
- **As an admin, I want to update the status of donations (mark them as confirmed or failed) so that the system reflects the correct payment status.**
- **As an admin, I want to view overall statistics and analytics (e.g., donation trends, percentages, reports) so that I can monitor platform performance.**
- **As an admin, I want to manage users and charities so that I can ensure data integrity and handle disputes if necessary.**

---

## Module 6 - UCD PA - Alan Maizon
**[Github (Public Repository)](https://github.com/alanmaizon/love/)**

Commit message:

Enhance README and settings: integrate YouTube Data API for livestream metadata retrieval; update allowed hosts and CORS settings; improve deployment documentation for backend and frontend.

README.md, after:

# **❤️ Love That Gives Back**

- [Concept Overview](#concept-overview)
- [Front-End Features](#front-end-features)
  - [Home Page (Landing Page)](#1-home-page-landing-page)
  - [User Authentication](#2-user-authentication)
  - [Dashboard](#3-dashboard)
  - [Charity Pages (CRUD Features)](#4-charity-pages-crud-features)
  - [Responsive Design](#5-responsive-design)
  - [API Integration](#6-api-integration)
- [Back-End Features](#back-end-features)
  - [Django Server](#1-django-server)
  - [Database](#2-database)
  - [User Authentication & Authorization](#3-user-authentication--authorization)
  - [Donation Management](#4-donation-management)
  - [Automated Testing](#5-automated-testing)
- [Tools & Technologies](#tools--technologies)
  - [Front-End](#front-end)
  - [Back-End](#back-end)
  - [Version Control & Deployment](#version-control--deployment)
- [ER Diagram](#er-diagram)
- [Sitemap](#sitemap)
- [User Flow](#user-flow)
- [User Stories](#user-stories)
  - [Guest User (Wedding Guest)](#guest-user-wedding-guest)
  - [Wedding Couple (Profile Owner)](#wedding-couple-profile-owner)
  - [Admin (Superuser)](#admin)


---

## **Concept Overview**  
**Theme:** A platform where users can explore and donate to various charity organizations tied to a couple's values.  
**Objective:**  
- Celebrate love by inspiring generosity.  
- Provide a seamless user experience for exploring charities and donating.  

---

## **Front-End Features**  

### 1. **Home Page (Landing Page)**  
- A hero section introducing the mission.  
- Links/buttons for logging in, exploring charities, and donating.  
- Display the wedding date with a countdown.  
- Highlight charity statistics (e.g., total donations).  

### 2. **User Authentication**   
- Login/Logout: Use Django Rest Framework for token-based authentication.  

### 3. **Dashboard**  
- Display personalized greetings.  
- Show donation history and progress.  
- Enable users to set donation goals.  

### 4. **Charity Pages (CRUD Features)**  
- Explore three charities with descriptions, images, and goals.  
- Allow users (admins) to create/update/delete charity profiles.  
- Enable commenting or "likes" on charities as a bonus feature.  

### 5. **Responsive Design**  
- Use bootstrap and CSS for a modern, responsive design.
- Ensure compatibility across devices.  

### 6. **API Integration**

- **External API:**  
  Integrated with the **YouTube Data API v3** using **OAuth2** to securely retrieve metadata about a scheduled livestream video.

- **Use Case:**  
  Guests visiting the homepage will see a **countdown timer** that transitions to an embedded YouTube livestream video. This dynamic behavior is powered by real-time data retrieved from the YouTube API, such as:
  - `scheduledStartTime`
  - `actualStartTime`
  - `actualEndTime`
  - `liveBroadcastStatus`

- **Backend Implementation:**  
  - A Django view at `/api/youtube-proxy/?videoId=...` acts as a secure proxy.
  - It uses a long-lived **refresh token** to generate an access token on the server, without requiring user interaction.
  - Fetches metadata using the `youtube.videos().list(...)` endpoint.
  - Handles API errors gracefully with detailed logging.

- **Security:**  
  - OAuth2 credentials and the refresh token are stored securely as environment variables.
  - Tokens are never exposed to the frontend.
  - The server refreshes the access token as needed, following Google’s best practices.

---

## **Back-End Features**  

### 1. **Django Server**  
- RESTful API with Django Rest Framework.  
- Serve data to the React front-end.  

### 2. **Database**  
- PostgreSQL for scalable and reliable data management.  
- Store user profiles, charity data, and donation transactions.  

### 3. **User Authentication & Authorization**  
- Secure user login with hashed passwords.  
- Assign roles (admin, authenticated user, guest).  

### 4. **Donation Management**  
- CRUD functionality for donations.  
- Generate donation receipts.  

### 5. **Automated Testing**  
- Use Django's `unittest` framework to test API endpoints and functionality.  

---

## **Tools & Technologies**  

### **Front-End:**  
- React with React Router.  
- Axios for API calls.   

### **Back-End:**  
- Django with Django Rest Framework.  
- PostgreSQL database.  

### **Version Control & Deployment:**  
- Git for version control.  
- Deploy front-end and back-end with Render.  

---

## ER Diagram

```mermaid
erDiagram
    USER {
      int id PK
      string username
      string email
    }
    PROFILE {
      int id PK
      date wedding_date
      string bio
      string location
      string profile_picture
      string bank
      string bank_account
      string revolut_username
    }
    CHARITY {
      int id PK
      string name
      string description
      string website
      string logo
    }
    DONATION {
      int id PK
      int profile_id FK
      string donor_name
      string donor_email
      decimal amount
      string message
      string status "pending/confirmed/failed"
      datetime created_at
      datetime updated_at
    }
    
    USER ||--|| PROFILE : "has"
    PROFILE }o--o{ CHARITY : "supports"
    CHARITY ||--o{ DONATION : "receives"
```

---

## Sitemap

```mermaid
mindmap
  root((Love That Gives Back))
      About / How It Works (About Us)
      Login Page (Login / Logout)
      Home Page (Home)
        Select Cause (Charities)
          Donation Form Page (Donate)
            Payment Instructions Page
           Donation Confirmation Page
      Couple Dashboard (Dashboard)
        Couple's Profile (Settings)
          Edit Profile
          Manage Supported Charities (Charities)
            Add New Charity
            View Supported Charities
              Edit Selected Charities
        View Donations (Donations)
          List of Confirmed Donations
          Donation Details Page
      Admin Dashboard (Admin Panel)
        Manage Donations
          (Confirm / Fail)
        View Overall Donation Statistics (Analytics/Reports)
          Charts
          Export
        Manage Users
        Manage Charities
```

---

## User Flow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[Visit Home Page] --> B{User Type?}
    B -- Guest --> C[Select Couple Profile]
    C --> D[Choose Supported Charity]
    D --> E[Fill Out Donation Form]
    E --> F[Review Payment Instructions]
    F --> G[Donation Confirmation]
    
    B -- Couple --> H[Register / Login]
    H --> I[Manage Profile]
    I --> J[Edit Profile Details]
    J --> K[(Wedding Date, Bio, Location)]
    I --> L[Manage Supported Charities]
    L --> M[Add New Charity]
    M --> N[(Name, Description, Website)]
    L --> O[View/Update Selected Charities]
    I --> P[View Donations]
    P --> Q[List of Confirmed Donations]
    Q --> R[Donation Details]
    
    B -- Admin --> S[Admin Login]
    S --> T[Admin Dashboard]
    T --> U[Manage Donations]
    T --> V[View Statistics & Analytics]
    V --> W[(Percentage Charts, Donation Trends)]
    T --> X[Manage Users & Charities]
```

---

## User Stories

### Guest User (Wedding Guest)
- **As a guest, I want to view a couple’s profile and supported charities so that I can select one to donate to.**
- **As a guest, I want to fill out a donation form with my name, email, donation amount, and a personal message so that I can contribute a gift.**
- **As a guest, I want to review payment instructions and receive confirmation after submitting my donation so that I know my gift is acknowledged.**

### Wedding Couple (Profile Owner)
- **As a couple, I want to register and log in with a single user account so that I can manage my profile easily.**
- **As a couple, I want to view my profile details (wedding date, bio, location, etc.) so that guests know more about us.**
- **As a couple, I want to edit my profile details and update my supported charities so that I can choose which charities are displayed on my profile.**
- **As a couple, I want to see a list of confirmed donations (filtered by the charities I support) so that I can track the contributions and share my gratitude.**

### Admin
- **As an admin, I want to log in and view an admin dashboard so that I can manage all donations and user data.**
- **As an admin, I want to update the status of donations (mark them as confirmed or failed) so that the system reflects the correct payment status.**
- **As an admin, I want to view overall statistics and analytics (e.g., donation trends, percentages, reports) so that I can monitor platform performance.**
- **As an admin, I want to manage users and charities so that I can ensure data integrity and handle disputes if necessary.**

---

## Module 6 - UCD PA - Alan Maizon
**[Github (Public Repository)](https://github.com/alanmaizon/love/)**
